README.md, before:

# No-Code React App

## Make sure you have the necessary dependencies

### Install firebase-tools globally

`npm install -g firebase-tools`

### Install Java

Some versions of Linux may not have Java installed by default (required for Firebase emulators)

`sudo apt update && sudo apt install openjdk-11-jdk`

## Adding dependencies

Because this repo uses `npm workspaces`, you should not add packages via `npm install <package_name>`, this will put the entry in the wrong package.json file, and it'll also install the code in the wrong `node_modules` folder (all packages should be in the root `node_modules`, that's it). This is one of the idiosyncracies of `npm workspaces`.

Because of this, to add a new package, manually add the entry to the corresponding `package.json`, and run `npm install` from root.

Note that the root `package.json` should only contain dev dependencies, prod dependencies should be in each individual module's `package.json`.

## Tests

### Unit Tests

Run unit tests with

    $ npm test

This will run all unit tests with Jest and output the results to the console.

To run a specific test

    $ npm test <SEARCH_TERM>

The grep command will automatically run all tests that matches the given search term

If you want to run in dev mode, which includes auto re-run as well as search term support

    $ npm run test:watch <SEARCH_TERM>

If you need to pass more arguments into jest, add a `--` before adding additional arguments.

    $ npm test <SEARCH_TERM> -- --watch

## Deployment notes

### Cloud Functions

A large part of this app relies on background functions in Cloud Functions, triggered via Firestore events. As of now, there is no way to set retry policies programmatically. Make sure to enable retry on failure in function settings in every new functions deployed in production.

In functions triggered via HTTP, make sure to set permissions to be public in cloud console (it should default to public but make sure as documentation is unclear here).

When writing functions, make sure they are idempotent as they can be run multiple times during retries or deployment switchovers.

Take extra care when renaming a background function, make sure to deploy the new one first before deleting the old one, so that they'll both run in parellel during the process. This is to prevent any time period where no background functions are deployed (this is also why idempotentcy is importent).

### Env variables

The typical Firestore environment variables are set automatically by cloud functions. However 3rd party services needs to have their environment variables added to the runtime.

To set environment variable:

`firebase functions:config:set service.key="KEY"`

Currently the following keys needs to be set:

`mailgun.key`
`mailgun.domain`

### Firestore

When updating indexes, if removing any index, make sure to deploy the new index first. It is probably better to do this manually than via the deployment script as that will remove the old index right away. As new indexes takes some time to create, there will be a significant down time when the app is non-functional.

Also - try not to use any '!=' queries, as that does not work well with indexing. This is why most fields should be required instead of optional (to avoid the `!= true` type of queries).

### Service account credentials

To get the credentials, create a JSON key from Google's service account panel and convert to base64.

`cat service-account.json | base64`

## Testing Approach

### Rendering in Virtual DOM: testing-library vs enzyme

Of the two popular testing methods for DOM, we're going to follow the strategy defined by testing-library, which tests closer to final rendered output, and not a component's internal states and methods. This is a good [summary of why](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/why-i-never-use-shallow-rendering#calling-methods-in-react-components).

Last thing, familiarize yourself with [this](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/common-mistakes-with-react-testing-library) before writing any tests. It is important that we keep the approach and style of all our tests as consistent as possible, just as much as the actual codebase itself.

### Best Practices

Generally, we should use snapshots as least as possible. Components should be mocked explicitly instead of snapshotted. Snapshot does not encourage critical thinking of the tests itself, and would often be updated just to ensure a test passes. On the rare occassion that a snapshot is needed, use `react-test-renderer`, which will produce a JSON version of the component tree to be snapshotted.

For most component tests, use `@testing-library/react`, particularly the `screen` and `render` methods. Do not use the return variables from `render`, as that is deprecated, use `screen` instead to query for rendered components.

To handle user events, use `@testing-library/user-event`. The default `fireEvent` that comes with testing-library is too low level, the `user-event` package introduces a higher-level abstraction that is much closer to what the user would actually do (e.g. instead of individual mouse events, it would just be one `click` event that would also generate the necessary `hover`, `up`, and `down` states; and it will behave much closer actual UX where it will not allow clicks if a button is disabled).

## Package Management

Keep all dev packages in root. Module packages should be specific to the package. Do NOT run npm install in the module's directory, there should only be one `node_modules` and that's the one in root.

To install a new package in a module, run:

    $ npm i somepackage --workspace=submodule0

Make sure to keep all dependencies updated. Read release notes whenever there is a major update to access compatibility / learn about new features.

To see a list of all oudated packages

    $ npm outdated

To upgrade all or specific package to latest minor versions (following package.json semver). The `<package_name>` is optional, leave out to upgrade all packages.

    $ npm upgrade <package_name>

To upgrade a specific package to latest major version (make sure to research compatibility first!)

    $ npm install <package_name>@latest

NOTE: There is a shared module under `modules/shared` that contains all shared code. Whenever an npm module want to use the shared module, make sure to modify `next.config.js` with the `transpile-modules` plugin. This will ensure that the shared module's typescript files also gets compiled as part of next.js's compilation process.

## Style Guides

Style will be automatically enforced via prettier and eslint. An autoformatter will be run on every git commit via lint-staged, and a linting script is available if you want to manually run it.

There are a few things to enforce outside of auto formatting though.

Ensure that imports are destructured whenever possible

```
// bad
import lodash from 'lodash';

// good
import { uniq, compact } from 'lodash';
```

Combine imports whenever possible

```
// bad
import Button from '@material-ui/core/Button';
import Container from '@material-ui/core/Container';

// good
import { Button, Container } from '@material-ui/core';
```

Order imports in the order of: global, repo, local. Always use `~/` for local imports, unless it is in the same folder or is a child module. If it is a React component, always start file with `import React`.

If there are multple global and local imports, sometimes it makes sense to put a space between global anad local imports to improve readability.

```
// bad
import usePendingWrite from '../../hooks/usePendingWrite/usePendingWrite';
import React from 'react';
import Component from './component';
import Link from 'next/link';

//good
import React from 'react';
import Link from 'next/link';

import usePendingWrite from '~/hooks/usePendingWrite/usePendingWrite';
import Component from './component';

```

## Component Structure

There are 3 different types of components in this app, pages (under `src/pages`), containers (under `src/containers`), and components (under `src/components`). The rule of thumb is:

- A page handles all database operations (CRUD) and should just render one container; however, there can be logic that renders different containers based on states (e.g. for loading).
- A container takes in any necessary data from prop and render components and handle layouts; any user interaction business logic should also be here.
- A component should be stateless independent pieces of UI that can be reused; any data should be passed in either through props or context (via providers).

### CSS

Prioritize flex layout whenever possible - it is good to have one standard method of layout.
However, be careful with using `height: 100%` on flex items as [it has undefined behavior in flex layout](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/33636796/chrome-safari-not-filling-100-height-of-flex-parent).

## TODO:

- Look into moving all /pages/api functions to Cloud Functions, so can get rid of service account credentials and keep pages structure clean (frontend only)
- Add logic to auto mark a call as finished if it's 4hr+. Fallback in case Twilio's webhooks fail

Commit message:

setup env pull script for base proj

README.md, after:

# No-Code React App

## Vercel

This project is primarily hosted on Vercel. To start, make sure to first link the local codebase to the vercel project.

    $ vercel link

Before running the project via `npm run dev`, make sure to pull the latest env variables.

    $ vercel env pull

## Adding dependencies

Because this repo uses `npm workspaces`, you should not add packages via `npm install <package_name>`, this will put the entry in the wrong package.json file, and it'll also install the code in the wrong `node_modules` folder (all packages should be in the root `node_modules`, that's it). This is one of the idiosyncracies of `npm workspaces`.

Because of this, to add a new package, manually add the entry to the corresponding `package.json`, and run `npm install` from root.

Note that the root `package.json` should only contain dev dependencies, prod dependencies should be in each individual module's `package.json`.

## Tests

### Unit Tests

Run unit tests with

    $ npm test

This will run all unit tests with Jest and output the results to the console.

To run a specific test

    $ npm test <SEARCH_TERM>

The grep command will automatically run all tests that matches the given search term

If you want to run in dev mode, which includes auto re-run as well as search term support

    $ npm run test:watch <SEARCH_TERM>

If you need to pass more arguments into jest, add a `--` before adding additional arguments.

    $ npm test <SEARCH_TERM> -- --watch

## Deployment notes

### Cloud Functions

A large part of this app relies on background functions in Cloud Functions, triggered via Firestore events. As of now, there is no way to set retry policies programmatically. Make sure to enable retry on failure in function settings in every new functions deployed in production.

In functions triggered via HTTP, make sure to set permissions to be public in cloud console (it should default to public but make sure as documentation is unclear here).

When writing functions, make sure they are idempotent as they can be run multiple times during retries or deployment switchovers.

Take extra care when renaming a background function, make sure to deploy the new one first before deleting the old one, so that they'll both run in parellel during the process. This is to prevent any time period where no background functions are deployed (this is also why idempotentcy is importent).

### Env variables

The typical Firestore environment variables are set automatically by cloud functions. However 3rd party services needs to have their environment variables added to the runtime.

To set environment variable:

`firebase functions:config:set service.key="KEY"`

Currently the following keys needs to be set:

`mailgun.key`
`mailgun.domain`

### Firestore

When updating indexes, if removing any index, make sure to deploy the new index first. It is probably better to do this manually than via the deployment script as that will remove the old index right away. As new indexes takes some time to create, there will be a significant down time when the app is non-functional.

Also - try not to use any '!=' queries, as that does not work well with indexing. This is why most fields should be required instead of optional (to avoid the `!= true` type of queries).

### Service account credentials

To get the credentials, create a JSON key from Google's service account panel and convert to base64.

`cat service-account.json | base64`

## Testing Approach

### Rendering in Virtual DOM: testing-library vs enzyme

Of the two popular testing methods for DOM, we're going to follow the strategy defined by testing-library, which tests closer to final rendered output, and not a component's internal states and methods. This is a good [summary of why](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/why-i-never-use-shallow-rendering#calling-methods-in-react-components).

Last thing, familiarize yourself with [this](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/common-mistakes-with-react-testing-library) before writing any tests. It is important that we keep the approach and style of all our tests as consistent as possible, just as much as the actual codebase itself.

### Best Practices

Generally, we should use snapshots as least as possible. Components should be mocked explicitly instead of snapshotted. Snapshot does not encourage critical thinking of the tests itself, and would often be updated just to ensure a test passes. On the rare occassion that a snapshot is needed, use `react-test-renderer`, which will produce a JSON version of the component tree to be snapshotted.

For most component tests, use `@testing-library/react`, particularly the `screen` and `render` methods. Do not use the return variables from `render`, as that is deprecated, use `screen` instead to query for rendered components.

To handle user events, use `@testing-library/user-event`. The default `fireEvent` that comes with testing-library is too low level, the `user-event` package introduces a higher-level abstraction that is much closer to what the user would actually do (e.g. instead of individual mouse events, it would just be one `click` event that would also generate the necessary `hover`, `up`, and `down` states; and it will behave much closer actual UX where it will not allow clicks if a button is disabled).

## Package Management

Keep all dev packages in root. Module packages should be specific to the package. Do NOT run npm install in the module's directory, there should only be one `node_modules` and that's the one in root.

To install a new package in a module, run:

    $ npm i somepackage --workspace=submodule0

Make sure to keep all dependencies updated. Read release notes whenever there is a major update to access compatibility / learn about new features.

To see a list of all oudated packages

    $ npm outdated

To upgrade all or specific package to latest minor versions (following package.json semver). The `<package_name>` is optional, leave out to upgrade all packages.

    $ npm upgrade <package_name>

To upgrade a specific package to latest major version (make sure to research compatibility first!)

    $ npm install <package_name>@latest

NOTE: There is a shared module under `modules/shared` that contains all shared code. Whenever an npm module want to use the shared module, make sure to modify `next.config.js` with the `transpile-modules` plugin. This will ensure that the shared module's typescript files also gets compiled as part of next.js's compilation process.

## Style Guides

Style will be automatically enforced via prettier and eslint. An autoformatter will be run on every git commit via lint-staged, and a linting script is available if you want to manually run it.

There are a few things to enforce outside of auto formatting though.

Ensure that imports are destructured whenever possible

```
// bad
import lodash from 'lodash';

// good
import { uniq, compact } from 'lodash';
```

Combine imports whenever possible

```
// bad
import Button from '@material-ui/core/Button';
import Container from '@material-ui/core/Container';

// good
import { Button, Container } from '@material-ui/core';
```

Order imports in the order of: global, repo, local. Always use `~/` for local imports, unless it is in the same folder or is a child module. If it is a React component, always start file with `import React`.

If there are multple global and local imports, sometimes it makes sense to put a space between global anad local imports to improve readability.

```
// bad
import usePendingWrite from '../../hooks/usePendingWrite/usePendingWrite';
import React from 'react';
import Component from './component';
import Link from 'next/link';

//good
import React from 'react';
import Link from 'next/link';

import usePendingWrite from '~/hooks/usePendingWrite/usePendingWrite';
import Component from './component';

```

## Component Structure

There are 3 different types of components in this app, pages (under `src/pages`), containers (under `src/containers`), and components (under `src/components`). The rule of thumb is:

- A page handles all database operations (CRUD) and should just render one container; however, there can be logic that renders different containers based on states (e.g. for loading).
- A container takes in any necessary data from prop and render components and handle layouts; any user interaction business logic should also be here.
- A component should be stateless independent pieces of UI that can be reused; any data should be passed in either through props or context (via providers).

### CSS

Prioritize flex layout whenever possible - it is good to have one standard method of layout.
However, be careful with using `height: 100%` on flex items as [it has undefined behavior in flex layout](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/33636796/chrome-safari-not-filling-100-height-of-flex-parent).

## TODO:

- Look into moving all /pages/api functions to Cloud Functions, so can get rid of service account credentials and keep pages structure clean (frontend only)
- Add logic to auto mark a call as finished if it's 4hr+. Fallback in case Twilio's webhooks fail
